# TAB DSL (v0.1.0)

Domain-specific language for creating data representations of guitar tab information.

It should support bass tabs by default.

Drum tab support to come later.

# Contributing

Only accepting bug fixes and tests right now.

When the code is close to my current "vision," I will be open to feature requests.

## Basic development workflow

The typical commands _I_ run during development.

```
$ vim
$ npm run typecheck
$ npm run format
$ npm test
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "feat: Added stuff."
```

(I usually run `typecheck` and `format` as custom commands from vim tho.)

But you do you. (Just don't commit any garbage generated by your IDE or whatever.)

## Development guidelines

### Types and variables

1. Use the type system to the max. Always. Make all types as generic as possible.
1. Short variable names + Long type names are preferred.
1. Never use `any`. If we ever really do need `any`, we should check and double check that there isn't any other way to do it. Adding an `any` should be a big international news event, with a live press conference and shit.

### Comments

1. All comments short and stricly causal. I.e. I want to see the word "because."
   - E.g. "Subtracting 1 _because_ otherwise it would add an unnecessary space."
1. Again: Comments must not "explain what the code does." Code clarity and type names, and relation among types, should do that. Comments must _only_ explain _why_ something is being done.
1. Unless you are me, do not use comments as a place to throw in "TODOs" (and even I should stop doing that.)

### Performance, Functional Programming, and OOP

1. Correctness matters the most.
1. Performance doesn't matter (except when it does, and then we do profiling, and then correct code = easier to profile.)
1. Functional Programming purity is _less_ important than performance, though. Yes, I'm sick of JS implementations sucking at recursion. JS is simply not an FP language. We should stop pretending that it is. So feel free to use `for`, `let`, and mutation _locally_, to avoid unnecessarily blowing up stacks by trying to be neat and recursive.
1. **OOP architect nonsense not allowed**. All "design pattern" nonsense is forbidden. Visitor this, AbstractBuilder that, etc. If I ever need "patterns" I go to Abstract Algebra and Category Theory. Those are real patterns with real algebraic properties from which tests and types can be derived. OOP "design patterns" are just silly names for some classes.

### Commits

1. Always use `npm run format` before committing. Make a git hook or something. (Ensure your editor is not doing something creazy like applying some different formatting from some configuration alien to this project.)
1. Use the "feat/fix/chore/refactor" commit conventions thing.

### Etiquette

1. No crying, no whining, no demanding anything from anyone. No one owes you anything, and your being offended is nobody elses problem.
1. **Fork/copy the project, and make your own, if you don't like how I run the original.**
1. When in doubt, see the meaning of the word **CONTRIBUTION**. If what you are about to do is not a contribution to the project, stop yourself.
1. (The list of acceptable contributions is above. In short: Tests, bug fixes + tests, type soundness / correctness improvements.)

# LICENSE

MIT.

tl;dr: Copy, modify, sell, re-sell, etc. Credit me, or don't. I don't care. Just don't blame me for any disasters you cause.

See license file.
